#labels Featured
= GUI2Exe Examples =

== Introduction ==

Hereafter I show a couple of examples on how to use GUI2Exe.


== Simple one ==

We will build the sample file that comes with py2exe, on:

`/site-packages/py2exe/sample/singlefile/gui/test_wx.py`

  # With the GUI opened, hit *Ctrl+N* or choose *File => New project...* ;
  # Enter a name for the new project, i.e. _"pyexe sample file"_;
  # In the central window that appears, under the *Target Class* box, right click on the list control and select "Add item(s)";
  # Left click on the new item in *Exe Kind* column and select _"windows"_; 
  # Left click on the new item in the *Python Main Script* column and browse to search for the aforementioned file; 
  # On the *Optimize*, *Compressed* and *Bundle Files* drop down choices, choose 2, 2, 1 respectively;
  # Scroll down the central window to the bottom and check the *XP Manifest File* option;
  # Click on the *Compile* button. 

And you're done. You can follow the compilation steps in the bottom log window as py2exe builds your executable.

----

== Less simpler one ==

We will build the *wxPython demo* as executable, using py2exe.

  # With the GUI opened, hit *Ctrl+N* or choose *File => New project...* ;
  # Enter a name for the new project, i.e. _"wxPython demo"_;
  # In the central window that appears, under the *Target Class* box, right click on the list control and select "Add item(s)";
  # Left click on the new item in *Exe Kind* column and select _"windows"_; 
  # Left click on the new item in the *Python Main Script* column and browse to search for the file `/YourPathToTheDemo/demo/Main.py`; 
  # On the *Optimize*, *Compressed* and *Bundle Files* drop down choices, choose 2, 2, 1 respectively;
  # Check the *Dist Directory* checkbox and write a new name for the distribution directory in the text box below (i.e., _"py2exe"_);
  # On the *Packages* list, hit Ctrl+A twice and edit the items to be `wx` and `wx.lib` respectively;
  # On the *Data Files* list, hit Ctrl+A, browse with the file dialog to `/YourPathToTheDemo/demo/bitmaps` and select all the files. Do the same thing for the folders bmp_source and data. 
  # On the *Data Files* list, hit Ctrl+A, browse with the file dialog to `/YourPathToTheDemo/demo` and select all the files. In the dialog which will appear next simply write "." (a dot);
  # Scroll down the central window to the bottom and check the *XP Manifest* File option;
  # Click on the *Compile* button. 

And you're done. You can follow the compilation steps in the bottom log window as py2exe builds your executable.